Submariner doc architecture overhaul stolostron/backlog#27003 (#4465)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: add-ons/submariner/subm_configure.adoc

[#submariner-configure]
= Configuring Submariner

{product-title} provides Submariner as an add-on for your hub cluster. You can find more information about Submariner in the https://submariner.io/[Submariner open source project documentation].

[#submariner-prereqs]
== Prerequisites

Ensure that you have the following prerequisites before using Submariner:

* A credential to access the hub cluster with `cluster-admin` permissions.
* IP connectivity must be configured between the Gateway nodes. When connecting two clusters, at least one of the clusters must be accessible to the Gateway node using its public or private IP address designated to the Gateway node. See https://submariner.io/operations/nat-traversal[Submariner NAT Traversal] for more information.
* If you are using OVN Kubernetes, clusters must be at {ocp} version 4.11 or later. 

> * Firewall configuration across all nodes in each of the managed clusters must allow 4800/UDP in both directions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If your OCP clusters use OpenShift SDN CNI, the firewall configuration across all nodes in each of the managed clusters must allow 4800/UDP in both directions.
```

> * Firewall configuration on the Gateway nodes must allow ingress 8080/TCP so that the other nodes in the cluster can access it.

Reviewer: This step is no longer needed.

```suggestion
```

> * Firewall configuration must be open for 4500/UDP and any other ports that are used for IPsec traffic on the gateway nodes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Firewall configuration must allow 4500/UDP, 4490/UDP on the gateway nodes for establishing tunnels between the managed clusters. 
```

+

> *Note:* This is configured automatically when your clusters are deployed in an AWS or GCP environment, but must be configured manually for clusters on other environments and for the firewalls that protect private clouds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note:* This is configured automatically when your clusters are deployed in an AWS, GCP, Azure and Red Hat OpenStack environments, but must be configured manually for clusters on other environments and for the firewalls that protect private clouds.
```

+
* The `managedcluster` name must follow the DNS label standard as defined in RFC 1123 and meet the following requirements:
** Contain 63 characters or fewer
** Contain only lowercase alphanumeric characters or '-'
** Start with an alphanumeric character
** End with an alphanumeric character

[#submariner-ports]
== Submariner ports table

View the following table to see which Submariner ports you need to enable:

|===
| Name | Default value | Customizable | Optional or required

| IPsec NATT
| 4500/UDP
| Yes
| Required

> 

Reviewer: Please add one more entry as shown below.

| NAT discovery port
| 4490/UDP
| No
| Required

| VXLAN
| 4800/UDP
| No
| Required
|===

See the https://submariner.io/getting-started/#prerequisites[Submariner upstream prerequisites documentation] for more detailed information about the prerequisites.

[#submariner-globalnet]
== Globalnet

Globalnet is a feature included with the Submariner add-on which supports connectivity between clusters with overlapping CIDRs. Globalnet is a cluster set wide configuration, and can be selected when the first managed cluster is added to the cluster set. When Globalnet is enabled, each managed cluster is allocated a global CIDR from the virtual Global Private Network. The global CIDR is used for supporting inter-cluster communication.

> If there is a chance that your clusters running Submariner might have overlapping CIDRs, consider enabling Globalnet. When using the console, the `ClusterAdmin` can enable Globalnet for a cluster set by selecting the option *Enable Globalnet* when enabling the Submariner add-on for clusters in the cluster set. After you enable Globalnet, you cannot disable it without removing Submariner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a chance that your clusters running Submariner might have overlapping CIDRs, consider enabling Globalnet. When using the console, the `ClusterAdmin` can enable Globalnet for a clusterSet by selecting the option *Enable Globalnet* when enabling the Submariner add-on for clusters in the clusterSet. After you enable Globalnet, you cannot disable it without removing Submariner.
```

Author: We refer to it as cluster set in the docs, unless we are talking about a specific value or parameter.
